# 1 What — [ M ]

## Our system is a visual recommender for people who are new to statistics. 

## It will act as a guide in progressing from topics they know to topics that are new to them.



# 2 Who

## This application is targeted towards self-motivated learners who use online platforms, MOOCs(Massively Open Online Courses) and utilize online discussion forums to gain clarity and further their knowledge.

##### <!!! SOMETHING MORE GOES HERE !!!!>

# 3 How

## The learning process starts in the system when the user inputs a term that he/she is familiar with. The system then makes recommendation of topics that are closer to it. In place of getting a black box recommendation where the user cannot reason about the recommendation they receive, the user would be able to calibrate the factors resulting in the recommendations he/she receives.

## The recommender has an intuitive visual design that enables him/her to visually process the related topics and how closely each is related to the topic searched.



# 4 Why

## Cross validated is a online hub for learners to post their queries and subject experts who take time to explain/answer the questions. So this is a good place to build models of user interests. This generated model can help in making relevant recommendations to our user.

# 5 Recommendation systems

## The visual recommender is a combination of a collaborative filtering recommender built on user interaction patterns over topics and a content based recommender built on textual similarities between posts across topics.

# 6 Under the hood

## The data aggregated from the cross validated API is preprocessed and cleaned. 

## To generate relevant tagging of posts, topic modeling is done on the dataset using LDA.

## The collaborative filtering approach factors in the various interactions between users and the topics for posts and generates a topic-by-topic matrix of similarity values to be used by the visualization.

## The content based recommender computes a cosine similarity between posts and their corresponding topics. This metric is again used in the visualization



# 7 Filters

## The user can curate topics recommended to him/her through filters that capture popularity of topics on Cross Validated and their support from the community.

## Rationale behind the filters — System lets the user intuitively adjust factors that help calibrating the recommendations. 

## The filters are based on a topic's popularity which can be gauged from the average upvotes of posts in a topic and the average views posts in a topic receives.

## The values for these can be set between `Low`, `Medium` and `High`. 

## Similarly another factor that might interest beginner would be how much support the community provides for a topic.

## Community support can be calculated by taking the ratio of answered questions to the total no. of questions in a topic.

## Also, the user can customize the number of recommendations he receives.

## Finally, she can specify the weight that has to be given to recommendations generated by content similarity and those modeled from user interactions.

# 8 The graph

## The central node of the visualization represents the topic of interest.

## All nodes connected to it are color-coded  to represent the type of recommendation they belong to. 

## For instance, blue marks collaborative recommendation, red for content based recommendation and purple denotes those recommendations that overlap in both criteria.

## The edge-weight represents the ranking of the relevance between the central node and the recommended related topic. 

## So, a topic that is closely related would have a thicker edge than one that is loosely related. Also the edge weight is given relative to the weights of other topics.

## The size of the nodes are calibrated by a weighted sum of how well they satisfy the filter conditions. The node sizes are also relative.

# 9 Further usability 

## To enable the user to get an idea about a new topic while still in the current topic, we have captured hover-over-nodes and displayed the description of the topic.

## Example — 

## Also we make recommendations of posts in the topic of user's interest. The user can filter the posts based on their question score, post views, the most recent posts, posts with most no. of answers, etc.

# 10 Technology

## For the visualizations and front-end:  HTML, CSS, JS, d3.JS

## The data crawling, preprocessing, topic modeling, collaborative filtering and content based similarity were built with python 2.7, with a MongoDB database and python's flask to host REST APIs for the UI front end.

